# Every cat is black at night

*21 July 1989, 2300hrs, North of Landau ad Isar, West Germany - West-German vs Czechoslovakian forces*



As the battle in Straubing developed, the Czechoslovakian 9th Tank Division began to drift south towards Landau ad Isar. With the Czechoslovakian 2nd Motor Rifle Division locked in combat with the West German forces in Straubing, the surrounding countryside south of the city held promise for quick exploitation. Unfortunately, the day was lost in the engagements in Straubing, and it was nighttime before the 9th was in a position to exploit the temporary local advantage the Czechoslovakian forces had.  

gIn the 9th Tank Division HQ, there was severe indecision about making a nocturnal advance in the barely reconnoitered ground. Unlike their fellow countrymen north of Straubin, the Czechoslovakian forces in this area had been plagued by indecision and stop-and-go movement. The 2nd Motor Rifle Division was in a difficult position since, even though it had succeeded in opening a gap in the 9th Tank Division, it had entangled itself with the West German forces in Straubing. This earned the Divisional Commander a stern rebuke from the Army HQ, which was still demanding continued pressure and relentless advance.   

The West German 4th PzG Division had reasons to feel marginally more optimistic. Not only had they stopped two Czechoslovakian divisions, but they could now use the night to maneuver reinforcements and consolidate their defense. At a higher level, NATO had concerns over the fact that the Czechoslovakians had secured a bridgehead over the Donau and that there were no forces to make an immediate counter. They were going to have to rely on aerial and artillery attacks to eliminate and harass the bridgehead forces. There was also concern over the gap south of Straubing. It was uncertain whether the Czechoslovakians would exploit it before the 4th PzG Division could plug it. The Divisional Commander of the 4th PzG Division wanted to consolidate his defense and counter-attack at first light on 22 July. For that purpose, the commander was moving armored forces hastily toward the area. Unfortunately, the counter-attack against the bridgehead was not meant to be.  

During the early evening of the 21st, the Czechoslovakian High Command, under Soviet pressure, took control of operations in this area. In a frantic affair, the forward groups of the 9th Tank Division were consolidated into a mighty armored fist with orders to make a night drive towards Landau ad Isar and beyond if possible. As they started the advance, they realized they had just moved towards a gap in NATO's defenses. Being the defender in their own land, the HQ 4th PzG Division was quickly made aware of this. The division immediately began rushing forward with whatever mobile forces they could assemble to throw against the flank of the advancing Czechoslovakians.
