# Regulars Forward

*20 July 1989, 1900hrs, Knigsfeld, West Germany - US vs Soviet forces*



As news of the quasi-disaster in Knigsfeld started to filter through NATO channels, the battered remnants of the West-German 102nd Panzer Grenadier Battalion were salvaging whatever they could and setting up defensive positions on the western approaches to Bayreuth. What was particularly worrying for them was that they learned, after restoring communications with their HQ, that there would be no reinforcements coming anytime soon. This was due to the Czechoslovakian forces having breached the border and advancing in large numbers. 

fAs the Bundeswehr tried to come to grips with the situation they were facing, their NATO allies had some concerns of their own. The HQ of the US 1st Armored Division was still coming to grips with establishing contact with all of their forces. They were also coming to grips with the developments on their eastern flank. With the 102nd Panzer Grenadier Battalion licking their wounds in Bayreuth and the 103rd Panzer Grenadier Battalion being impossible to contact due to the electronic jamming, the marauding Soviet recon force that just bounced the 102nd Panzer Grenadier Battalion needed to be quickly stopped.  

Even though it was expected, one of NATO s biggest problems was that there was a significant number of units operating under significant electronic jamming. Meanwhile, Spetsnaz units had wreaked havoc with the civilian communications network in some areas while the SSMs (Surface-to-Surface Missiles) and tactical aviation were busy wrecking the rest. Even though this was expected and units had undergone extensive training in order to operate under these adverse conditions, some of the units  reaction was too slow, while others were either too quick or rash. The end result was that since the first few hours, even if strategic discipline was holding, tactical discipline had been a free-for-all in some areas.  

*On the Soviet side, despite what could only be described as a strong start, they were now experiencing difficulties. While different from what NATO was experiencing, they were proving no less crippling. After manhandling the 102nd Panzer Grenadier Battalion so effectively, the CO of the 39th Mechanized Rifle Regiment forward group was now forced to deploy in formation in defensive positions in the Knigsfeld area. Logistical difficulties dictated this decision. The group had been operating for 12 hours, pushing forward relentlessly, and was in dire need of fuel and ammo. In training, under the watchful eye of Generals covered in medals, the supply column would arrive like clockwork at the right time, and re-supply would be flawless. In reality, the supply column never arrived. Unbeknown to him, it had been destroyed by NATO tactical aviation before it had even crossed the border. The only good news for the forward group was that they were told the Regimental main body was approaching and reinforcements, as well as further support, would be available. 

In Bamberg, the US 3rd Mechanized Brigade was instructed to clear the Soviet force in Knigsfeld. They were made aware of the previous events in the area and were clearly told not to repeat the same mistakes. At the same time, they were made aware that reconnaissance reported more Soviet forces heading towards Bamberg, but on a north-south axis, and were reminded that the defense of Bamberg was also a priority task.
