# A Time To Dance

Map:  Bad NeustadtJuly 20, 1989 - Day 1 @ 0400Forces:  U.S. vs Soviets tThe Soviet Union is withdrawing its forces from the German Democratic Republic (GDR). They have alerted both NATO, and the UN, that they are moving two divisions east, in the sector of the 8th Guards Army. This announcement was made months in advance. Several smaller units have left their permanent duty stations, earlier during the month, for new locations further east. uNATO is on a low alert status and is having to learn to deal with the fact that the Cold War is over. What to do now? But wait, the 533rd Military Intelligence (MI) Battalion stationed in the Fulda Gap is getting information that doesn t match up with how events should be unfolding. It seems the Soviets aren't moving to the east.  8The 533rd MI Bn starts scrambling to find out what's up. KThe 79th Guards Tank Division left its garrison at Suhl and moved southeast on Route 281. When it reached Coburg the lead element, the 17th Guards Tank Regiment, turned southwest on Route 303 and west onto Route 279. The entire time they were in road march formation. There was no NATO interference with the approach to the border. cAs the 17th Guards Tank Regiment entered Saal an der Saale they gave the prearranged order for the artillery batteries of 8th Guards Army to fire. Targeting both Camp Lee and the approaches to Bad Neustadt and Rdelmaier. The guns erupted into life as the lead elements drove through Wlfershausen and turned towards Bad Neustadt and the waiting 11th ACR. 2nd Squadron, 11th ACR, stationed at Camp Lee, outside Bad Neustadt, is hammered by 122/152mm artillery fire. The camp had been warned only minutes before but many of the squadron s vehicles were already moving towards Rdelmaier. It is fitting that 2nd Squadron, the last element of the Regiment to leave Vietnam after five and a half years of service, is the first US unit to be engaged by the Soviet advance in WWIII. QThe two elite units have been facing each other over the decades and will now come together in a mighty clash.  The Blackhorse outposts along the border at Rdelmaier will have to deal with the Soviet advance down Route 279 until the rest of the squadron can move to their aid. Or, until the Soviet Army breaks through and is advancing.  gAt 0400 the day is just beginning. What was going to be a hot day in July is about to get much hotter.  KThe Cold War is about to become a Hot War. It's time to dance to the music. *This scenario is adapted from the original Flashpoint Campaign Red Storm scenario of the same name originally developed by Steve Overton.*
