# The Three Sisters

3July 20, 1989 - The Fulda Gap - US vs Soviet forces 9*"North of Rasdorf, between Bad Hersfeld and Fulda, there is a valley about ten miles long, dominated by a half-dozen hills. The troops call it the Three Sisters. The name comes from a course military joke; from the air, the hills look 'like three ladies lying on their backs,' according to a Blackhorse scout. But there is nothing funny about the Three Sisters. It's perfect tank country - low, rolling terrain, lightly forested but with plenty of cover. NATO possession of the Three Sisters would create a salient that would slow a Soviet assault, split their thrusts, and threaten the flanks of the advancing units. A Warsaw Pact victory would force a general withdrawal of the borderline, to prevent American units from being cut off" - USAREUR, Michael Skinner * Tensions between East and West have risen to a boil. In Germany, NATO military forces are hurriedly rushed from their barracks to the General Deployment Positions (GDP) near the Inner-German Border (IGB). Pact forces are also on the move, and by July 19th both sides' armies have poured in to the German countryside. In the famous Fulda Gap, the US Army's 11th Armored Cavalry Regiment has long 'paced the trace' - keeping a watchful eye East. Now the regiment is spread out across dozens of kilometers near the IGB, tasked with delaying any Warsaw Pact advance. On the other side of the border, units from the Soviet 8th Guard Army take up positions, top off their fuel tanks, and wait for word of what's to come.
