# The Long Night

*21 July 1989, 0200hrs, West and South of Erbendorf, West Germany - US and West-German vs Czechoslovak forces*



After a game of cat and mouse on the wooded hills east of Grafenwhr, where the US 1st Brigade and the Czechoslovakian 19th Motorized Rifle Division conducted a series of highly mobile operations, both sides were exhausted and retreated to their starting positions as daylight faded. 

The 1st Brigade had cause for feeling that they had fulfilled their duty. Not only had they stopped the 19th Motorized Rifle Division, but they gave it a bloody nose in the process. They also had better defensive positions to retreat to, behind the Haidenaab and the Creussen. Grafenwhr was being evacuated as the battle raged, and the evacuation was expected to continue through the night. Despite all of this, the situation was far from resolved. North of Grafenwhr, the line was held by patrols trying desperately to keep contact with the West-German units that were facing the 19th Motorized Rifle Division and the 20th Motorized Rifle Division. The 3rd Platoon 2nd Cavalry Regiment was expected to use the cover of the night to move into this gap. The Panzer Grenadier Battalion 101 had retreated behind Windinscheschenbach after their fight against the 19th Motorized Rifle Divison.  

On the Czechoslovakian side, the Commander of the 19th Motorized Rifle Division was coming under heavy pressure to continue his advance. The 20th Motorized Rifle Division's Commander felt that he was very close to breaking the West-German defenses. He believed that another push by the 19th Motorized Rifle Division would force the hand of the West-Germans and make them retreat even further. The 1st Armor Division was also arriving at the front, and its Commander stated that it was vital that a hole be formed so that his mobile forces could exploit in depth. The 1st Army HQ agreed with both assessments and ordered the 19th Motorized Rifle Division to continue its offensive during the night, adding further support assets to assist with this push.  

This was easier said than done. The 19th Motorized Rifle Division had to defend its southern flank against the NATO forces east of Amberg while at the same time trying to keep in contact with the 20th Motorized Rifle Division to the north. They were also required to once again attack the enemy that had proved tenacious during the day and were better equipped to fight at night.The 19th Motorized Rifle Division's HQ knew from the earlier battles that NATO's weak point, for now, was west of Erbendorf. The road leading to Kemnath provided a solid avenue of approach, assisting with orientation during the night advance. The wooded hills southwest of Erbendorf would make it significantly more difficult for a quick NATO attack against their southern flank. Worryingly, daylight would be arriving as the Czechoslovakian forces were traversing the open rolling farmland south of Kemnath.
